okay I'm gonna play you something I'm
not telling you what it is and then I'm
gonna leave it hanging and then at some
point you'll find out what it was it
doesn't account to like America or
Puerto Rico or anything land-based
because of the infrastructure in terms
of the internet which is provided
basically we have allegiance to the big
corporations that provide that that I
have sort of sponsored us and
traditionally kind of provided that
infrastructure so yeah it's kind of
different kind of solvency I suppose
okay and I understand your
responsibilities vegetations though yeah
well when all the children come to
school on their first day they're
chipped so it actually removes all their
kind of memory and you know any
experiences that they've had up until
that age and then but we have been
discussing the problems because there is
one child that refuses that we just have
been unable to kind of you know chip so
it's been quite difficult the kids while
the kids learn on their own we don't
educate as such we don't there's no kind
of dynamic between the teacher and the
children and they're very advanced
actually they understand networks and
they're just able to learn a lot quicker
and we found that it's much more
beneficial to allow them to do that
amongst themselves rather than us try
and kind of shape what is going on and
what but what they do do is they enter
into some of the rituals in society
where you know they have the opportunity
to vote on a daily base
and also we've got a structure where
they they gain points from like their
behavior basically and it's about their
ability to kind of like coexist in a
harmonious way with everybody else and
so they sort of realized quite quickly I
guess that you know if they behave in
certain ways and like you know for the
good of the rest of the society then
they gain these kind of like this
currency basically so yeah it's kind of
a quite a sort of child led with it with
certain things in place then and then
they just yeah they just learn thank you
very much okay so I'd like to start with
an assertion and the assertion is that
diversity is an intrinsic good and that
when we talk about the kind of diversity
that I'm talking about as an intrinsic
good is to do with variety so it might
be biodiversity it might be to do with
the difference in backgrounds of people
involved in a project but what we're not
talking is just about a collection of
different things what we're talking
about is different things coordinating
in a certain way
and we know that true diversity is
happening when there is polyphony and
harmony and it gives a kind of complex
expression so that's it's a kind of this
belief is kind of running underneath
everything else though about to say um
so quick introduction to me I'm Ruth
Catlow I'm an artist and co-founder of
further field which I founded back in
96 with another artist called McGarrett
we started as the web was getting going
and started we we very quickly
understood it changed the way we thought
about art more art meant
so art was no longer a kind of it wasn't
about producing objects it was about
understanding artists more of a kind of
production of social relations and we
started platform building and we made
connections with artists techies and
activists around the world who we build
platforms with together so before
Facebook was a twinkle in the eye of
Mark Zuckerberg we along with a whole
load of other artists were making these
kind of social media platforms and we
understood that it was about context
this is where the interesting stuff
happens in making making work we've run
a gallery since 2004 and this is where
our gallery is this is a picture of our
gallery now so it's in a kind of
gingerbread haughty style gallery a kind
of building in the heart of Finsbury
Park so this is North London there's a
hundred and eighty different languages
spoken it's been a kind of super diverse
area we run a community lab space in the
corner of the park where people can come
and get their hands on stuff and
starting when we did we've been very
influenced by the kind of cultures and
methods and processes of free and
open-source software development
so understanding production as something
which is best when it's shared both
knowledge production and cultural
production and so that in in the lab we
host a whole range of projects some of
them growing projects we host they're
migrants and refugees project and people
often use this as a space for talking
about things that are at the
intersection of arts technology and
social change and seeing looking at
critical questions in arts and
technology and this kind of I think this
is the map really so we've we've seen
what it looks like on the ground
and this graphic that we actually
produced in 2006 for a project called do
it with others kind of progression from
the punk DIY spirit of make your own
tools build your own stage make your own
instruments make a noise
that's culture if you say it's culture
its culture but moving on to a more kind
of collaborative process and seeing that
these emerging networks and the tools
that we were making together meant that
this more collaborative and collective
way of making culture was taking on a
whole new kind of character character
and so this the the the Daiwa graphic is
a spread of different categories of
things and I think as a artist as an
artist you kind of work with media in a
very particular way and suddenly working
with networks we understood that we were
working with so many different media all
at once interacting with each other in a
very kind of dynamic way so we're
talking about a network of feeling and
crafts and tools and Heritage's and
libido and all kinds of things and we've
been working we've been working in the
blockchain space since 2014 and it's
really hard for me to compress a
conversation like this or a talk like
this in 20 minutes so there's lots I'm
not going to say and please come and
talk to me if you're interested and
there are so many people that we've
worked with who've really shaped what we
do who I'm not going to give a name
check to but you can check out our
blockchain art resource on further field
if you want to see who those people are
and they're like it's a really
interesting bunch of people and so here
we get to the meat of what I'm here to
say so ten ten years ago blockchains
really exploded the world of money and
kind of what we thought money was and
how it might operate and now I think we
need to do the same for the art world
and I'm not alone and this is so on
Tuesday morning before I left
these were two things that came across
my desk so one was this a screenshot
from a headline headline piece of press
about an event that I was already
finding very irritating hearing about
that the christie's art in tech summit
so christie's is very old auction house
in london and they hosted an ardent ex i
met around blockchain and this was the
headline so blockchain could be subtle
Botox for the art market but not a
facelift and the other thing that I was
looking out on social media with images
of the Arctic on fire and in my mind
these things that there's a connection
here and it's about it's about the
vested interest of power so while we
were looking at the images of the Arctic
on fire in the UK none of the news
channels we're talking about they were
talking about the weather but they
weren't talking about climate change and
this is just really kind of it becomes
it can start to make you feel a bit mad
and I actually think we've got the same
thing going on in the art world in the
way they're looking at the blockchain
certainly you've got the vested interest
of the establishment trying to downplay
the importance or the possibilities for
what could happen because they actually
don't want to see those cultures evolve
um so that's rant over and I'm going to
go into practical things so the arts
have got a problem I don't know how much
this applies in the States this is
certainly true in the UK and I think
also true in across Europe the problem
we've got is that there's a really
awkward and a growing awkward
relationship between the value of arts
society and the way it's resourced and
funded and this has become been becoming
kind of like increasingly difficult and
itchy I think and it's because funding
the where funding comes from and the way
we value it are not really in alignment
with each other and
there's a long as part of this are we're
talking about the ecology of the arts
and the ecology the arts world so the
results of this is that there's a real
growing inability of existing arts
economies to support younger younger
artists so definitely in the UK with
we're just seeing far fewer artists
coming through and much less diversity
in the kind of work they're doing
connected there's an increasing
centralization and homogeneity in the
arts production and engagement and well
known and developing fast is arts as a
vehicle for speculation and money
laundering and so we've been thinking
with lots and lots of other people about
kind of what the blockchain arts what
they have to offer each other and we
think that there's definitely
opportunities for new funding models so
and where this becomes really
interesting and we're seeing this
happening is the renegotiation of the
economic and social value of art and
seeing people thinking about these and
not just taking the established
relationship between those two things as
given and rethinking these things the
area where I think there's most so so in
the funding of the Arts at the moment we
have the looking for public corporate
and private and I think what I'd like to
see is a kind of emergence a verb of
this other category which is a kind of
Commons production and we are starting
to see lots of really interesting
thinking coming coming emerging in that
area we there's efficiency so lowering
the costs for organizing and artists
like to think about organizing as proven
by the endless books of artists
manifestos artists like to think about
governance how decisions get made who
makes them inheres horses are
distributed also just thinking together
artists techies and activists thinking
together about new imaginaries for the
future very necessary I think we'd
probably all agree there's some very
pragmatic and interesting work on go
in redefining authorship and kind of
fractional progressive ownership and
collection production and I think what
arts can bring to block 10 which I think
we've already seen like writ large today
is this kind of opening up the black box
of the technology so that more people
can understand what it does and how it
might be interesting and in kind of more
diverse interests so this this really
helpful graphic was produced by Jess
Holgrave of Codex protocol last year she
has updated it but I couldn't get my
hands on it today so this is this is
kind of where the business of art has
moved into the blockchain space and it's
really moved in hard and fast into areas
of title provenance so all the areas
around the financialization of art which
is probably going to be really good for
collectors and investors so this is art
as a financial asset I think it remains
to be seen it's certainly at the moment
it remains to be seen how much this is
actually going to trickle down to the
artists and just looking at this this
morning you'll see at the top there's
this kind of small little cluster about
medium and subject matter and that's the
bit that we're kind of fascinated by by
as artists but I do have a question
about kind of how culture is perceived
and more kind of widely in this kind of
set of things going on in the art block
chain space so this is our proposal
where we're working something up and our
proposal is for a decentralized arts lab
so this is to build culture something
more interconnected for arts in the
blockchain and peer-to-peer web we're
seeing these things kind of emerging
together and they need to be part of a
joint culture and it will have kind of
three these three main kind of areas of
work so one is community-based CO
research I'm going to show you an
example of what I mean by this but this
is again it's about context creation so
art is not just an object that then you
push off out into the world and hope
that it finds its market
it's about actually creating the context
in which people create and appreciate
and critique these things and seeing
this as a whole system for new contexts
and narratives so this will be through
workshops with very diverse partners
using arts LED approaches the second
kind of area is new art forms and
experiments at a protocol aaj achill
level so in the early days of the web
artists did really kind of fascinating
experiments with what networked
technologies how it enabled people to
kind of feel differently in relation to
each other and to understand how
technology was really changing changing
changing the world and changing our
relationships with each other so these
are I think we're going to be seeing
many new art forms and artists exploring
hard technical and social questions in
the blockchain which i think is in turn
very useful to the kind of engineering
they're kind of yet the cultures of
engineering and this will be through
arts commissions and residences and
we've got a whole kind of set of
questions that we already know are
really hard and then artists like doing
this stuff and finally we really want to
come back to this question of what
descent what the kind of social
opportunities for thinking in a more
decentralized and distributed way we
want to test and build decentralized
infrastructure and look at questions of
fairness participations and Commons so
this kind of questions of shared
ownership how you how a community can
make its own rules for managing
resources that depleting can be
replenished and there's so much great
work done in this space already in this
I think will just be about joining up
and building solidarity between really
great work that's already going on and
okay I'm not going to read through this
but this is just to give you a sense of
how we've come to where we've come to so
we've we've kind of been doing this
series of exhibitions we published a
book we've made a number of films and
we've also been running this
series of workshops called Dow whoa so
you see what we did that we took the die
whoa and we'd put a Dao at the front of
it so this is like decentralized
autonomous organizations with others so
this is a question about how we can
build solidarity using the using the
kind of systems and media of blockchain
smart contracts etc and with Ben Vickers
at serpentine i've been devising this
series of workshops that i'm just going
to show you the book the books lovely
get it this is what it looks like it
looks lovely doesn't it it contains
documents of artworks some science
fiction writing so helping us to think
about how the world might be and theory
kind of theorization of what the
blockchain spaces and about the
technology it includes the tera zero
guys thank you and Primavera who you'll
see talk tomorrow and kind of like
thinking through things like new life
forms and autonomous agents in in in a
way that it's just constantly crossing
disciplinary areas okay so down whoa
this is the last section so this is the
blockchain lab and debate series for
reinventing the arts and we've
deliberately gone for really pulling
people from as diverse backgrounds as we
could into a space for a series of five
workshops so these are artists musicians
theorists engineers venture capitalists
entrepreneurs people from the kind of
policymaking space to talk to each other
and to learn together as fast as we can
about all the complexity that is being
kind of churned up in this space and the
thing we set ourselves was to understand
how blockchains might be used to enable
a critical sustainable and empowered
culture and something that is just kind
of yeah transcending the emerging
hazards and limitations of pure market
space
relation of crypto economics so that's
that that was our goal this was the
series that we ran so it was focus it is
focused on the arts and we were looking
at kind of what an art lab might be in
each of the workshops we always had a
blockchain developer there so that we
were staying grounded in what was
actually possible and what's actually
current in terms of engineering
developments but we would often see this
kind of these these like that the
identity trouble one I think we really
gave the developer a hard time and I
feel really bad about her he was very
like he was a really great guy talking
about an identity system that would
enable people to prove that they were
one person forever and put that
alongside critical theorists and people
who are looking at bias in in data and
algorithms and suddenly it goes really
messy very fast so so that did happen it
happened on a number of occasions and I
felt bad for that guy but I think I'm
hoping it was good for him in the end
and then we kind of asking like stupidly
big questions like do how can we do good
on the blockchain and this is a kind of
humanities and an engineering and a
philosophical question but getting
really smart people who are doing very
specific work to come in together and
think about it and I'm gonna finish up
just by giving you a little glimpse of
the last workshop that we did which was
called what will it be like when we buy
an island the workshops are all using we
use a kind of range of different methods
methods I've become a bit of a
live-action role play freak because it's
it's a really good way for helping
people to relax they can always be
playing someone else if they don't get
it it's just that their character
doesn't get it so that means that people
can relax and learn fast and kind of
become slightly less self-conscious and
this was the most kind of complete
laughs that we did so the scenario a
cast of crypto billionaires has
established societies on four islands
attracted by their swooning palm trees
sandy beaches and lack of governmental
constraints or tax
so this was we were we planned this and
then we were overtaken by reality
it happened in Puerto Rico and and and
it's interesting because I think what
came up for us was probably it felt
extremely dystopian even though we
encourage not people not to go there
just for the fun but probably not half
as dystopian what was what was happening
in real life um so at this lab so you
can see some kind of outputs and
processes here we had 50 people there
were four Islands each of different
political complexions for each Island
there were 12 roles so there was like
agriculture education you could be the
CTO you had a mayor which is a little
bit anti intuitive health education etc
and people weren't self assigned roles
and then it took place it was three
hours and three meetings took place the
first was the board meeting four years
in its 2022 the second one was the truth
and reconciliation committee 50 years
after the after the Islanders have
landed in 2068 and the third was the
world island's summit also 2068 so we
had this kind of either for those that
haven't done laps basically whatever
people say is true is true so unless
someone is called a liar which then
becomes true so it's basically a process
Y whereby you grow the truth through
assertion and supporting it with
whatever evidence you can pull into
place so we have maps and we have
various tools that allow people to
assert kinds of truth and then there was
a dice which was basically luck acts of
God that told you how things were going
and we had an illustrator and you'll see
that the illustrator kind of was
starting to identify these these kind of
archetypes and kind of political
complexion
yes so the video that I opened with was
Helen Knowles who was from the
Department of Education in Seoul for the
first meeting so we had a roving news
reporter and yes so she was talking
about how we chipped children for social
harmony we had Ivan Rowland talking
about the trouble with a local community
in Island Society so it was kind of like
really going right in there and looking
at questions of colonialism and yeah
like difficult messy stuff we had
Natalia who actually turned out to be
from the seasteading community actually
in real life who talks very eloquently
about how there are no more bad jobs for
people after full automation and then we
have Louise Hadley talking about how
phallic buildings proliferated in the
new matriarchal Islands Society of
gothos
so we have these kind of mixes of people
kind of using their imagination very
playfully to think about very complex
things and what it's doing is that it's
giving people a way to I think do really
hard difficult thinking about what life
might be rather than just these kind of
single solution orientated things
actually think about what happens when
these things connect and is this
actually the life we want and so I'll
end with this quote which I've hacked a
little bit from Rachel O'Dwyer who's a
really great researcher in this area
because there is no magic hat for and
I'm changing it to planetary scale
cooperation because I think it applies
and this is this is the thing that we I
think we can agree everyone agrees this
is what we need to be doing right now
because there is no magic hat for
planetary scale cooperation and there
never will be
we need to find ways to embrace not only
technical solutions but also people who
have experience in community organizing
and methods that foster trust negotiate
hierarchies and embrace difference and
this to me is
about connecting this kind of digital
there with what's going on in the ground
with doing the kind of transnational
connecting map to the trans local and
really making sure that we're having
communities feeding up into this kind of
software development process yeah the
decentralized arts lab needs you so come
and talk to me about if if it feels
interesting to you and you're like you'd
like to connect and this is how you can
do it